To consider accessibility in our
organizations, either where you work now,
a place you worked in the past,
where you would like to work.
Let's say you're working on a Web app
with a lot of interactions in it,
a lot of reordering, a lot of really
intricate things requiring focus
management, but none of it is accessible.
You just know there's some
blocking issues in there.
So let's consider some questions.
Who would you have to convince
to prioritize accessibility?
In your position, who is in the way?
What motivates them?
When you're really getting down to
the nitty-gritty details of presenting
your estimates and things,
how would you scope or
prioritize your feedback to increase
the chances of them saying yes?
And is there anything you can do to
change the accessibility issues?
What steps would you take
to actually go and fix it?
Cuz that can be helpful as a tech lead,
to send people in the right direction.
So if you have any thoughts on any
of these questions, let's chat for
a minute, and then we'll be done today.
I mean,
are you comfortable saying kinda just,
theoretically, where
are the blockers with accessibility?
Or where were the blockers?
Cuz you said you had a big, 11th hour
audit that all of a sudden was like,
God, we have to fix this.
>> In terms of what's blocking
the team I'm on, specifically,
or some of the work we're doing,
yeah, it's a complicated question,
mostly to do with resourcing,
and time, and prioritization.
Where the priority for
that application is really to meet
existing business commitments,
where accessibility is not,
strictly speaking,
a part of the requirements for that.
Which is disappointing.
But I can understand high level,
from a business objective,
why that's a concern.
And yeah, the project
prioritization is very much around,
we have to meet these existing
commitments to other partnerships and
then we can move on to the other stuff.
And it's like, okay, well, great.
I'll be patient in the meantime,
I suppose, and
try to continue encouraging
the developers to learn from their peers
on other teams that are making this
more of a regular practice, and
trying to build up the muscles for
how do we include it in regular work.
But yeah, it's a difficult scope and
balancing act with an application that
serves a lot of existing business.
And so the potential impact for
doing some of this kind of
clean up work would be very good,
but it's also costly.
And long term,
the investment has a shelf life.
And that's where quantifying that can be
useful in making, I'll give an example.
Just on quality metrics in general,
we had an automation framework
using Cypress that was really
not providing a lot of benefit.
It wasn't covering the Core user flows.
It was constantly flaky for developers.
And the future facing direction was very
much chosen to be, use Playwright instead.
And we had a QA contractor who would have
needed a lot of retraining to do that.
So we ended up letting that person go and
hiring a new contractor to
write Playwright tests.
And I was literally messaging
with him today at lunch.
But that's where we would like to
add the Axe-Core Auditor to that and
add some metric-ing around it.
But even that, it's not a huge effort.
And I expect I might be able
to get a sprint or so, for
one person to work on that in Q1,
but I have to wait.
>> Yeah, it's interesting.
Even within one organization,
you can have multiple things that come up.
On one line of business,
it might be that it's a legacy
product that has an end in sight, that
the cost of investing the accessibility
into it just doesn't pencil out.
So there's that, and
then there's the just lack of awareness.
Which, yeah, it's not that anyone's
explicitly blocking accessibility per se,
it's that they just don't know.
But then you get,
we have to go back and fix it.
That's when some of
the leadership blocks happened,
cuz that decision has to be made.
Do we go fix it after the fact or not?
Or do we get investment time up front or
not, so?
>> Yeah, and luckily,
the investment time up front is
happening on the future facing things.
And I'm glad for that.
>> That's awesome.
>> [LAUGH] It'll be a different
conversation for 2.1 and 2.2 compliance.
I had that conversation recently with a
new partnership opportunity that came up.
And they were talking about,
yeah, they want 2.1 compliance.
And I'm like, that's great.
We needed to do different
work in order for
that to be possible on
the timeline you're suggesting.
>> Yeah, well, that's really interesting.
So kinda getting back to the business
case, I hope that works out.
That could be some lost revenue
because it's not compliant, right?
So that's getting back to what I was
talking about where the market pressure,
you miss out on those contracts.
That is the side that starts
to get people's attention,
people who care a lot about finance,
[LAUGH] or legal.
>> Carolina says we have an internal
Notion page at our company.
And I'm starting a guidelines
documentation for
developers to use from scratch
during the development process.
Now I'm making posts over there and
even resharing to our web devs weekly, so
people can actually understand
the importance of it.
I've got people interested in
the last few days, and yeah,
talking about your workshops.
And I'm happy to share it.
>> Yay, I love it.
So you can start to see
those light bulbs go on.
>> And Miles says it's sometimes very
difficult to convince higher-ups to care
about accessibility when it doesn't
provide immediate shareholder value,
even though everyone in
the room knows that isn't true.
>> It can be very hard.
Sometimes you have to find those
quick wins that you could just sorta
slip in there anyway.
I'm kind of a rebel in that way, so
I'm always gonna advocate for that.
But it is hard to make that fly sometimes.
Sometimes I can't do that.
And you might not be able to,
if it breaks tether tests or
it's just outside of the scope
of the ticket you're working on.
So yeah, it can be a challenge, but
we're all in this together, really.
I hope by coming to these workshops
that you feel like you're
part of the accessibility community now,
because you are.
We're all just so excited to have
people join the community and
make a difference for accessibility.
No matter where you are in your skill
level, whether you're a tech lead and
just getting started with it or you're
more experienced, we're all here together.
And I just really wanna thank you for
spending all this time with me,
learning about accessibility.
>> [APPLAUSE]